Emerging Media and My Digital Life

While TikTok was being used to group people with nationalist misogynistic agendas, Facebook was being used to scam lonely women out of their life savings. While I believe the TikTok problem would be very difficult to solve, I think the FaceBook one would not be nearly as difficult thanks to the Google reverse image function. If Facebook implemented a security check that whenever someone uploaded a picture that picture was reverse image searched to see if it was really their picture it would be much more difficult for these Nigerian scammers to successfully scam their victims. Also, maybe people shouldn’t be sending money to people they haven’t ever met, but maybe that’s just me.

One positive change that I’ve seen because of the internet has been the easy access to media. I think with the advent of the internet and streaming platforms such as spotify, soundcloud, netflix and hulu, people have become much more engaged in media because people can find things that suit their tastes perfectly. I think that this has been a large cause in the recent boom in the entertainment industry, despite the fact that people who create these things receive less money because of the monthly subscription business model that many of these companies employ.  Another positive change that I’ve seen is how easy communication is these days. In the past, I think living on the other side of the world would have been much lonelier than it is nowadays. If I’m feeling homesick I can pull out the supercomputer in my pocket and Facetime anyone back home. Another positive change that I’ve seen with the internet is the facilitation of e-commerce. Before, there were many huge impediments to starting one’s own business. For example, someone might need to get a brick and mortar store, have a host of employees, pay for physical advertising etc. Nowadays, some online shops don’t even need to have a physical location. Someone could be selling t-shirts out of their garage and posting on social media to get advertising for free. The internet has absolutely made the world a much more hospitable place for entrepreneurs.

One negative impact that I’ve seen from the internet has been social media addiction. Some of my friends might have nicotine habits, but ALL of my friends  have social media addictions. It’s like crack. As a matter of fact, I was planning on going to bed early last night but wound up staying up until 4 am browsing Instagram so I’m super tired today. I’m literally feeling physical repercussions of my social media addiction. Another negative impact that I’ve noticed from the internet is how easy it is to get scammed. I’ve personally never been scammed on the internet but somebody I know was scammed twice in a week this summer from some small Instagram-based businesses. This is the reverse of the benefits that I was talking about before around e-commerce. Because businesses require less to appear legitimate, it is easy for illegitimate businesses to appear legitimate. And the last negative impact of the internet that I’ve noticed is how hard it is to tell what information is true and what is false.

My phone causes me many problems. For one, I have a hard time being fully present at any point in time. As someone who is super ADHD, the constant buzzing of the phone drives me crazy when I can’t look at it. It’s especially difficult when I’m trying to be respectful and give somebody my undivided attention and it’s buzzing. It also causes me to have poor sleep. I spend god knows how long on my phone before bed every night and sometimes I even wake up in the middle of the night and go on my phone. It’s the first thing I do in the morning and it just puts me in such an unnatural headspace. Unfortunately, cellphones are just a reality of the modern world and I don’t see them going down in prevalence, only going up. I observe that my girlfriend is much better at dealing with this. When we go to bed, she puts her phone not next to the pillow but under the bed and on do not disturb. Sometimes she completely turns it off. She’s a genius for this but I just don’t think I have the self-control to do so.
